Half an hour away from the opens in Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm Yvon Man
with David and Glass.
>> All right, let's get to it. Our top
stories today, stocks across the region
are rallying after President Trump
announcing a trade deal with Japan,
setting tariffs at 15% in exchange for
market access for US cars and
agriculture.
>> Treasury Secretary Scott Besson say
he'll meet next week with Chinese
negotiators expected to extend their
ongoing trade truce. And the Philippine
markets open this hour in focus, of
course, as Manila strikes its own US
trade deal following President Marcus'
visit to the White House. And Bloomberg
is told the US nuclear weapons agency
was breached in a widespread hack that
Microsoft is now blaming on groups
backed by Beijing.
[Music]
Welcome to the show. Hope you're all
well. A lot of top stories to get
through today and you guys will be
witnessing over the next two hours or
so. Something special as it pertains to
our ability to fit in everything into
our rundowns today. Let's start things
off and why markets are doing this
particularly in Tokyo uh with the topics
up 2.6% automakers in focus. Double
digit gains across some. Toyota's up in
the high single digits. Subaru is up
almost 12 13%. And this is really on the
back of the trade deal that was
announced from President Trump about an
hour or so back. That leads us into the
FX markets and what we're doing as far
as dollar yen is concerned. Philippine
peso also in focus given of course that
specific trade deal. 20 to 19% is the
tariff uh on Philippine goods going into
the United States. Dollar peso is doing
this the that of course cash market
opens up at this hour. Can we change the
boards, please, if we can? The bond
market's in focus, too. We have a
40-year bond auction today, which was
supposed to be our top story. It could
still be consequential for markets, but
we'll get to that once we do have an
indication of demand. Very quickly,
China overnight session, a rally taking
place there. Turnover almost 1.9
trillion remarkets
there. Shanghai composite two and a half
year high. We'll unpack the the
reawakening of the onore markets in a
moment, but as you can see, some stocks
to watch, some sectors in focus amidst
everything that's taking place across
the news front here. Ivon,
>> what a positive surprise this Japan
trade deal seemed to be, right? We we
were we basically had to rip up our
entire rundown this morning and rebuild
it as we had our morning call this
morning just given the fact that yes, it
was a lower tariff rate, which was
unexpected. also you know the fact that
this you know sectoral tariffs according
to NHK might also be lowered as well
when it comes to autos which has been a
big choking point in these trade
negotiations and for markets you know
they're saying this is definitely good
news positive uh for stocks in
particular and even for Ishaba's future
right that he's really tied this trade
deal
>> to his own future after that big setback
in the upper house
>> I mean there are questions whether or
not this would happen because of what
took place over the weekend and I think
this sets those questions now and this
answers those questions to to a large
extent it's also Worth pointing out
though that most of the details that
have come so far out are of President
Trump. And of course on the Japanese
side, they've also mentioned they need
to be paying a close attention. They
need to read closer uh into the fine
print of what actually was was agreed
on. But yes, there's Japan, there's
there's the JGB auction, of course,
there's the Fed conversation as well
around the job security of J. Powell and
this onshore market rally in China among
many other things that we're talking
about today.
>> Yeah, there's so much talk about
anti-involution, right? And the fact is
that there are actually traders out
there now. You mentioned in the swaps,
right? They're starting to to pric in
the possibility of China actually
emerging out of deflation on the back of
these industrial policies.
>> Yeah. I mean, what led the rally
overnight? EVs. What's led the rally
this week? Platform companies. And when
you take a bigger step back, solar
stocks also catching a very strong bid
overnight. Those are three sectors that
have been in focus amidst intense price
competition or the push back against
that. It's also worth pointing out top
of the next hour, we have a joint
departmental briefing taking place in
Beijing. So, we'll see what that will
bring us as far as news flow is
concerned. We're called higher 310 of
1%. Uh we're in the thick of earning
season as well. We can get to that in a
moment. But yes, everything so far is
leading possibly what this means for the
bigger potential trade deal ahead which
is the one with China. On that note, the
framework can we use Japan? So,
President Trump says he has reached a
trade deal with Japan. We'll be setting
cars at 15% and see Washington's major
Asian ally invest $550 billion in the
US.
>> I just signed the largest trade deal in
history. I think maybe the largest deal
in history with Japan. We worked on it
long and hard and it's a great deal for
everybody. I always say it has to be
great for everybody. It's a great deal.
A lot different from the deals in the
past. I can tell you that.
And it is the auto sector that is
definitely benefiting from this news
here in Japan. You take a look at the
likes of Subaru, Mazda. Now we're
actually up limit up for that stock in
Tokyo this morning. Obviously the US is
one of their key markets as well. But
even for Subaru too, US is the main
market for them and we are seeing double
digit gains of 15% or higher there for
some of these automakers here today. And
so let's let's bring in our whole team,
right? You have a Japan deal. You have a
Philippine framework as well. Let's
bring in our Asia trade co-anchor Sher.
She joins us from Tokyo. Our Manila
reporter Cliff Harvey Venson and China
correspondent Minman Low are all here.
Sher, I'll start with you. This seemed
to be catching the market a bit by
surprise. How positive is this news?
>> Yeah, we have seen the Japanese yen gain
ground and reverse earlier losses. We're
seeing JGB yields rising and obviously
stocks. You mentioned some of those
automakers. You mentioned Subaru for
example that has more than 70% of its
global sales going to the United States.
We had Mazda as well. Toyota also seeing
its best day since August of last year.
So markets are pretty impressed with the
deal so far, but the details are still
pretty scarce. What we've heard from
President Trump, as we heard from him
earlier, is that this would be a
historic deal. What do we know so far?
That it will be 15% on Japanese goods
going into the United States. domestic
media NHK reporting that that will
include 15% tariffs on Japanese autos
that would be coming down from 25%.
Those 25% tariffs were expected to have
a $19 billion impact on major Japanese
car makers. So that's a sigh of relief
if we actually do get that confirmed.
Prime Minister Ishiba coming out earlier
today saying that even he needs to see
the details of these agreements. So
we're still watching out for that. We're
also watching what happens to rice
because of course that's a very
sensitive and symbolic sector here in
Japan and NHK also reporting that Japan
is set to increase the import ratio of
US rice. Not necessarily talking about
tariffs because remember if you bring
down the tariff rate for rice what is a
competitive advantage of the US could be
a big question. So far we know that for
example last year US imports of rice
were about 40% of total imports into
Japan. So we'll be watching what this
actually means when it comes to this
very sensitive sector for the Japanese
public. We also have some details about
a $550 billion investment into the
United States and we heard from
President Trump that that will include a
joint venture with Japan for the Alaska
LG project.
Sherry, how does he sell this now in in
Japan domestically as a win?
>> It is going to be a net positive for the
Japanese economy. I talked about the
impact on the auto sector and the auto
issue was a big one because when it
comes to the Japanese trade surplus
against the US, 80% of that included
cars. So, uh, including cars in this
deal, that could mean bringing US cars
into the US. Although that could be a
concession, it could also be just good
news for the broader economy. Of course,
Prime Minister Isha, as you said, needs
to sell this because he's also just
suffered a historic defeat when it comes
to the upper house election over the
weekend. And he is uh now preparing to
have discussions with opposition parties
about other key issues domestically like
bringing down the sales tax at the
moment. Whether that's a temporary or
permanent reduction of course is a key
question. Will he need to make more
concessions? Cost of living was a big
issue. Rice is a big part of that. Uh we
will wait for details when it comes to
those rice imports from the US. But we
know that rice prices are still higher
about 60% already from last year. So uh
what the implications are for the
broader Japanese economy, that's how
Prime Minister Isha will try to sell
this to the domestic public. But of
course given his historic defeat, I have
heard from my colleagues, for example,
Paul Jackson saying that this could be
the leverage that the prime minister has
to keep his job because his vow to stay
in power despite the fact that he
suffered this big defeat for his ruling
LDP. Now that there's a trade deal, what
will happen to the prime minister is a
key question. The last three LDP leaders
that have lost uh the upper house
election have had to quit in the next
two months.
>> We'll see how much time this buys him.
uh there on this I guess you could say
success uh on this trade deal. A minute
I'm going to bring you in right now. So
the good news continues right that we're
we're hearing that Stockholm is the next
meeting between Scott Besson and his
counterparts in China. What do we know
so far?
>> Yeah, happening next week Monday and
Tuesday. Uh and Scott Besson has already
signaled that he is or at least the US
is likely to extend that deadline for
the trade truce that is expiring on on
August 12th. We don't know whether it's
just going to be another three months
extension or a longer term one.
Certainly the atmosphere has been
warming up recently between the two
sides after China stepped up the
shipments of rare earths to the United
States. And the US also rolled back some
of these curbs right on things like
ethane uh jet engine parts and of course
those H20 Nvidia chips to China. That
was touted as a really big win in US
China relations and really prompted
whether or not there is going to be this
grand bargain with China. And of course
question is will it follow the template
of what Japan has achieved you know some
sort of commitment in terms of
investment from China but of course
Scott Besson also said that this time
the talk is going to be broadening out
to cover issues like China's purchased
of this um sanctioned oil from Russia
and Iran and again it just shows you
that the US still has many other levers
and excuses to place more tariffs on
China whether it's an end in itself or
is it you know a push to get China to do
more to reign in Putin on his war in
Ukraine. Um the other thing Scott Besson
mentioned that US wants to see is China
shift towards this consumerdriven
economy and already we're seeing China
taking some concrete steps on that front
ridding in those intense price
competition. So that could be another
sort of positive signal whether or not
the US will use that to as as a
justification to give China a little bit
more slack when it comes to those
tariffs that's still to be determined.
All right, a futures are pointing to the
extension of the Asia rally. Volumes in
Tokyo are up 80% compared to the
average. We're stronger as well on the
Philippine peso to Manil. Now, Cliff
Venson is with us right now to talk us
through the details of that separate
agreement, Cliff, between Bongbo Marcus
and President Trump. What do we know?
>> Hi. Uh good morning, uh David. So, uh
the US will um impose 19% uh tariff on
the Philippines. uh that is lower than
the 20% announced um earlier this month
but higher than the 17% that was uh
announced in um in April. So, uh,
President Marcos says that, um, the
Philippines in exchange will, uh, open
the market for, uh, US, uh, products
such as, uh, such as cars. And at the
same time, uh, the Philippines will
import more soy wheat and soy wheat
products as well as, um, medicines from
the from the United States. So despite
the um slight reduction, uh the
Philippine president considers this uh
development as a um a significant
achievement following his uh White House
visit and meeting with uh President
Donald Trump.
>> All right, Cliff, thank you for that
wrap up there. Cliff Enzen there. Also,
our thanks to Sherion and Minimman Lllo,
our team. And it seems like Dave that we
we are really starting to get more of
these trade deals being done before this
August 1 deadline which continues to be
what music to many investors ears.
Right. Let's bring in Christy Tan now,
investment strategist at Franklin
Templeton Institute. Christie, we're
starting to get more frameworks at least
in this part of the world on what these
trade deals are going to look like wi
with the US. How does that frame your
investment strategy overall as we count
down to the rest of the year now?
>> Hi, good morning. Yes, I think we've
seen now the lowhanging fruit which is
the US Japan trade deal that's been
plugged right so it also showcases that
you know when both countries wanted a
deal as equally badly uh and this was
evidenced by you know this US Japan
talks being like the eighth or the ninth
rounds before a deal actually came into
um materialization so you know this goes
to show that you know if that kind of
premise will probably lead to a proper
deal or at least a framework. Um so we
have 15% tariffs and Japan promising to
purchase half a trillion dollars of US
goods and um Japan increasing access to
American producers of cars, trucks, rice
and uh agri products. That's what Trump
is uh is is claiming. Now the surprise
as well is the uh 10 percentage point um
reduction from the original liberation
day tariffs. So what it also means for
markets is that um we we think that you
know this auto tariffs part is probably
going to be a key swing factor or or a
key influence um you know it'll be
interesting to see how EU auto tariffs
will pan out right and uh Trump also
striking a deal with the Philippines 90%
tariffs overall these and more trade
deals ahead what this means for markets
is that it reduces the risk of uh
countries having to mention or um impose
retaliatory trade measures post August
1st and uh as we're also watching very
closely is the uh deal with China uh
before the August 12 deadline and now
we're talking about an extension so
there's still some time and I think it
it it essentially it puts the risk on
for markets in the meantime.
Well, in the meantime, Christie, let me
pick up on that because as you point
out, markets are welcoming this news
positively. If you take a step back,
though, you notice the tariff levels
have been creeping up, right? Japan's at
15%. Southeast Asia were closer to 20%.
We weren't even at 10%. 6 months ago,
the markets in 6 months time look back
at this time and say that was actually a
negative for these markets.
Well, I think that the markets have been
pricing in some some part of tariffs,
right? So, it's either between 10% or
20%. I think that's the kind of
threshold and the range that markets are
putting it. Of course, if you compare
with you know the base uh which is very
low single digit then we are definitely
worse off but I think there is already
the adjustments being put in markets in
the in the in the premium in you know in
in either share prices or bond yields
that are pricing in some form of
tariffs. Now are we going to be worse
off? Now that remains to be seen because
uh as we're looking at right now is the
start of a trade deal and the proof is
in the pudding because whether or not
this gets carried out and I think that
this US Japan trade deal if you look at
you know the promise of half a trillion
dollars worth of US goods purchases from
Japan you know that is leverage right so
at the end of the day um I think that
will be a lot more negoti negotiations
and the actual impact act either on
prices on inflation remains to be seen.
Um but you know we're definitely worse
off compared with low single digits but
you know we're not worse off we better
off if you know if it's below 20%.
>> All right and you are still bullish on
Japan. We'll get your take on that that
that line that you're saying there Japan
remains a compelling value play. Christy
Tan there investment strategist at
Franklin Templeton Institute she's
staying with us. We're also coming down
the opens of trade in Shanghai Shenzhen
and Hong. We talked about the futures
have been indicated higher here. This
ashare rally that seems to be getting a
bit more mojo. Now your reference rate
just crossing the Bloomberg as well.
7:14 this morning. This is the China
show.
[Music]
Equity
markets are on the front foot this
morning. As you can see, US futures in
Asia is really being carried on its
shoulders by the Nickeap 2 and a half%
following that trade deal that President
Trump just announced.
>> Yeah, let's bring Christy Tan,
investment strategist of Franklin
Templeton Institute. Uh, and you know,
your Japan call overall, Christy, you're
saying, you know, the market is still a
good value play. you know obviously
before this trade deal you were already
saying that and despite all this kind of
political uncertainty that's going on
the country so what is the play on Japan
now
>> well we have been um bullish on Japan uh
for some time and I think this is
definitely holding up and uh we have we
have seen I I think the political
situation uh and also the tariff issues
being a disruption and um but overall I
think the fundamentals in Japan remains
right and we're seeing reforms being
being um maintained and companies are
delivering and uh also the wage rises
although there's still negative real
wage but at least we're we're looking at
uh wage increments that's happening and
inflation is a problem domestically and
I think with the political focus and
priority by now is probably the survival
right and he has to address uh the
domestic issues so uh we do expect that
um I think uh the the the main issue do
about Japan is of course uh the hurdle
on debt and fiscal right uh and this is
not common this is not just uh you know
in in particular Japan right everyone's
facing that I 260% debt to GDP of course
is big but um at this point in time you
know we we do think that you know there
are more positives uh that fiscal issues
are definitely a long-term uh issue that
Japan has to deal with but in the near
term the policy reforms that uh
corporate reforms that are taking place
and inflation being tackled. These are
some of the positives that uh we
continue to see value in in Japanese
companies that are uh you know uh
reporting positive earnings and
valuations are not as stretched as the
others.
>> Well, others potentially I'm not sure if
you're alluding to I mean United States,
right? I mean the market's doing well.
Some stocks better than others. quite a
narrow rally taking place. Are you
concerned over valuations in the US?
Where do you think the S&P 500 is going
to be this time next year?
>> That's a great question. So, we do have
a um survey by our um uh portfolio
management analysts and you know all um
nearly 500 of them and uh the consensus
is that the S&P 500 uh for this year
will end around you know um nearly just
5 uh 6,000 and around 5,500 5900. Now
there are reasons why we are more um I
would say uh conservative uh you know
for the rest of the year for this year
but you know the long-term medium run is
still for the S&P 500 to head higher now
in the meantime then you know you've
mentioned right you know valuation right
so that's extended so what's the game
plan for the second half you know we're
looking at a correction a consolidation
at least a healthy pullback sometime
between August and October we still have
a few event risks ahead ahead of us,
right? And markets had strong run,
right? So, we're looking at rotation and
this rotation is bringing us to some
other markets that could be uh quite
interesting, underappreciated and you're
looking at China onore markets that have
been also doing pretty well only
recently. So I think we are uh expecting
that rotation to move out of US
equities, some of the uh overvalued ones
potentially into some of the um better
um prospects type of um you know we're
looking at um companies with better
balance sheets and this is the earnings
season, the second quarter earning
season. Yeah. Um it's looking quite
decent. Uh well the holder rate of 4% is
pretty easy to beat. So um we are
looking at more positive earnings
surprises but
>> it is it it is still is a well extended
markets in terms of you know valuation
and pricing so rotation uh and
broadening of the markets that's what we
expect
>> Christie we hear you thank you so much
Christy Ton investment strategist at
Franklin Templeton Institute there uh
for us going into the open today let's
call it 1% on the hing index and we are
again higher on the Asia market. This
rally is extending. More on that in a
moment. You're watching the China show.
Good morning.
[Music]
All right, welcome back. Uh the opening
bell under four minutes away and we are
likely going to see a decent gap higher
at the open here. let's call it 1% HS
techch and of course the ultra markets
are also very much in focus today.
>> Yeah, it it's it's the auto sector, it's
the tech sector as you say that's really
driving this and so we're leaning
towards risk here this morning on the
back of all these trade deals that we
heard overnight as well and this morning
NEO is up some 8% here following what we
saw the ADRs on the back of these kind
of new product launches as well for the
automaker. We have the open coming up
next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. I think we're talking
about trade deals. I'm not sure. Anyway,
we are. We are. So, a couple of markets
are opening up. Mainland markets, Hong
Kong in a couple of seconds, Philippines
as well. Uh, one market that's been up
and running 90 minutes now and really
feeling the tailwinds from uh trade
negotiations and a trade deal is Japan
15% tariffs. That market's up
substantially 2 3%. Autos are up in
double digits. We are looking to see
whether or not that shows up in sort of
semi-proxies within this Chinese market
which has been rallying as well of late.
>> Yeah, you know, it it's it's two sort of
things going on, right? Yes, there's
more talks of of talks in Stockholm
between Scott Besson and his Chinese
customer next week, Monday, Tuesday, and
they're and they're talking about
extending that August 12th deadline. So
again, once again, that could be
positive for the market. On the flip
side, domestically, you're getting more
of this theme of Chinese regulators
trying to halt either excessive coal
production, over capacity. That really
is kind of leading a lot of analysts to
to start pricing in the possibility of
China getting out of deflation, right?
You're starting to see that not just in
some of these stocks, but the some of
the swaps, which we'll tell you a little
bit more about. But yes, overall that
really leads to the Asshare market
really playing catch-up to what we've
been seeing in Hong Kong. We continue to
see that. Dave has been talking about
the turnover that we're seeing on the
CSI 300, for example. That's basically
past 1 trillion uh the last few days as
well. So, we're up about a fifth of 1%.
We'll continue to watch turnover here
this morning. We're seeing in terms of
yields are actually heading higher this
morning in the bond market. But keep in
mind what we're seeing in the commodity
space that continues to be kind of the
hot spot here. Still seeing bid on
copper, on steel, iron ore though taking
a bit of a step back, but it's been a
pretty ferocious rally too of late and
Shanghai crude is also higher this
morning. Uh we watch of course some of
the big caps like CL that's also doing
quite well here today. So things are
looking pretty good. Hong Kong better
though relatively speaking. We're up
about 710 of 1% here right now. Same for
when it goes to eight shares. HS Tech is
seriously the one that we need to focus
on here today just given kind of we're
leaning more towards the growth names.
We're leaning towards the auto sector as
well. UBS is James Wang and his team
have an interesting call though. Be
careful the earning season and that may
be a headwind here potentially for Hong
Kong stocks uh given what they're seeing
which could be potential downgrades
highore and that rebound might actually
also impact sentiment there as well. We
we'll get that call from uh Charlotte
Yang joining us here a little bit later
on. But today the tech space is doing
okay. 10-centent, BYU, Alibaba are in
the green. Mtoan and Xiaomi though are
heading the opposite direction. Watching
the auto space. So, NEO is the big one.
There you go. We're up 9%. We saw 10%
gains in NEO overnight in the US
markets. There's a lot of confidence
among analysts now about these product
launches and the like and BU as well.
We're up some 4% there. So, you know, it
seems like overall things looking good
for the tech sector. Uh CGS also
upgraded that stock NEO by by the way uh
to now implied a 32% increase uh
according to their latest uh price
targets there of $48 is where they
thinking that stock could fly. Uh solar
stocks as well. So we talk about
anti-involution in the well and really
what the beneficiaries of that people
say it's solar. Uh that certainly is the
the key focus here, but we're not seeing
that too much upside there for some of
these stocks. It's a mixed bag overall
and coal stocks. So we talked about
this. There's these inspections have
been launched in China to halt the
excessive coal production. So the
government may look at even closing coal
mines producing above permitted levels
as part of a crackdown on over mining
which is a big story that we've been
tracking as well. That's why you're
seeing some of these coal miners doing
okay this morning. We're up about 1% for
most of them. Dave,
>> yeah, we're sticking with the hot and
heat theme of course being produced by
either solar or coal. And as you can see
the markets have been ra rather on fire.
So this is as of the close and of course
we have to adjust for the opening today.
So highest since 2022 already for the
Shanghai composite. That market that
specific index is actually outperformed
the rest that's index constituency
dependent of course as a function of
that. We're now within half a percent as
I speak on the CI300 of taking out the
October well the early November highs of
2024. And of course as one is pointing
out on average one and a half trillion
so far daily turnover uh onshore that's
total in fact on a chart that looks like
that that's coming up on your screens
very shortly as of the close yesterday
nearly 1.9 trillion was actually so July
has been almost as good as Feb which
followed the deepseek moment. So that's
really starting to wake up as far as an
indicator for markets. Now, on the other
side of things, quite literally coming
here to Hong Kong, the we have a story
to tell. We'll get to this in a moment
with Charlotte, but the big number for
you is 800 billion. That's the amount of
net purchases across the stock connect
into Hong Kong so far year to date.
We're about 7 months in. And 880 was of
course the full year total, which was at
a record last year. So, we're barely
into the second half. And Ivon, we're
already seeing totals uh equaling uh
what we saw for the entirety of of 2024.
>> Yeah.
>> And we still got five months to go.
We'll see how this all plays out. Uh for
more of the rally and what we're seeing
in the onore markets as well and
offshore. Let's bring in our Asia
equities reporter, Charlotte Young.
She's with us. Uh tell us a bit more
about the surge in these southbound
flows. We've been talking about for
weeks now, but what's behind it and how
sustainable can it be?
>> Yeah, so we're we're talking about some
very serious momentum here. Like Dave
just said, 800 billion. That's just
steps away from last year's um a fourear
level and also a previous target. So
what's really uh fueling it onore
investors they have the hunting for
these quality companies listed in Hong
Kong particularly in the t internet
sector as well as those new consumption
names and also um and on and also at a
time you know when their domestic market
is still underperforming relatively
versus Hong Kong and so our CICC
analysts are actually expecting this
fullear southbound inflows to exceed
over one trillion Hong Kong dollars even
though the second half you know the pace
could be a bit slower um mostly because
of those dry powder u there was as dry
powder for mutual funds as well as
insurance companies to buying. But the
they estimates looking at you know
mutual funds may add 100 billion Hong
Kong dollars um and also insurance
companies having another 200 billion
Hong Kong dollars into um into Hong
Kong.
>> Uh there's a call from UBS and James
Wang who who's come on the show a few
times. I have to note that he's been
wrong a couple as well couple of times
but anyway just a caveat that he's been
correct as well in in some cases. Timing
is very difficult here. James, you know,
we like you. Uh, Hong Kong stocks could
feel the pressure because of earnings.
What's what's the thesis?
>> Yeah. So, uh, UBS, they're seeing some
near-term headwinds for Hong Kong
market, particularly the earnings
downside. They're seeing about around 4%
for the HSCI consensus earnings
downgrades because of those compet
competitive pressure. We're seeing in
sectors such as food delivery and also
we could be seeing, you know, a slight
rebound in the high that could be a
headwind. Also there's limited
expectations for stimulus but while the
macroeconomy is still struggling I mean
UBS there's still overall positive view
on Hong Kong China um markets but their
refresh targets for HSC for for HSI and
um MSCI China they actually seeing you
know less than 1% upside for HSC HSI and
also uh less than 4% for MSCI China you
know through year end so it's some
cautious outlook there
>> Charlotte thank you so much Charl Yang
there our Asia equities reporter right
the other big story we're we've been
tracking is this hack Microsoft and the
details that in fact just emerged in the
last let's call it 90 minutes or so. So
Microsoft saying well the hack targeting
a SharePoint software now a source tells
Bloomberg that the US nuclear weapons
agency has been affected with Microsoft
earlier saying that Chinese state
sponsored groups were to blame for this.
Annabel Jewelers a tech reporter tech
correspondent here with us to take us
through the details of what we know on
the story. Yeah. Well, I think you've
sort of given the the sort of headline
here, which is that this is an agency
that maybe could have been caught up in
in the hack that we're hearing this
information from a source. So, this is
the the nuclear weapons agency. It sits
underneath the energy department. The
energy department has said that some of
its systems were compromised, but they
didn't directly respond to this one.
That's why we're going along with our
sources here. But in the case of of this
agency, so the NNSA, it's essentially
responsible for making sure that US
nuclear weapons are safe, that they're
secure, and also that they're effective.
So given that kind of information that
they would have in terms of the
capabilities and the stock piles,
there's obviously a lot of concern about
the data that could have been
compromised. What we understand is that
no sensitive or classified information
has been accessed, but we are still
trying to understand the extent of the
damage given that this is extremely
widespread. uh taking not just this
agency but other government groups in
the US like the education department,
Florida's department of revenue, uh the
Rhode Island general assembly,
governments in Europe, the Middle East.
I mean, it's quite widespread and as
well there's the links back to China
with businesses as well are also said to
have been hacked.
>> Yeah, they're pointing the finger on
some of these state sponsored hackers in
China. What do we know on what went
wrong, how this attack happened, and how
widespread is it?
>> Yeah, well, the the the hack does seem
to be widespread. We're still trying to
understand the extent of the damage on
it. Uh the China hacker access or that
link to China we can get to in a moment.
But you're asking us well about how the
compromise came about. Uh so the
software in question is Microsoft
SharePoint and this is essentially used
for data management and storage. A and
so the the way that you can access uh
SharePoint is essentially either via the
cloud and that's the newer version and
the newer way and more widely used. But
there's also an older version for how
you access and that's through on premise
servers and that's where the
vulnerability seems to have happened. Uh
in terms of the groups that have been
linked to this. So there's two in
question in particular. There's linen
typhoon and also Violet Typhoon. These
are both hacking groups that are fairly
wellnown. They have been linked directly
to the Chinese government in the past.
There's a third one as well that they
call out in this statement here. You can
see storm hyphen 2603 also said to be
based in China. China for its part has
responded uh via its uh embassy in the
US and they're saying that they haven't
got any link to this and they've
certainly strongly pushed back on the
allegation as well. But still Microsoft
as a business is really trying to to
boost its it its credibility in this
space and they have made a a sizable
number of highs in the security space as
well from the US government. We
understand those executives are meeting
with senior management on a weekly basis
uh to try and make the software more
resilient. But again at Microsoft it's
it's it's ubiquitous essentially a
software it's used all around the world
and that does leave it open to to
vulnerabilities just based on the scale
of its use
>> just yeah just because of where it is
really uh Bill thank you animal jewelers
there uh on the latest on this uh this
hack we're yeah we're getting more
details now von on on some of the lines
coming through out of Japan here
>> so this is local local news NHK right so
um we'll we'll see if we can get this
match but they're they're hearing a
little bit more details of this US Japan
trade deal. So they agree on maintaining
50% tariffs when it comes to steel. So
this is one maybe the the the holding
sort of where we think things have held
and maybe we haven't seen too much
change. Yeah.
>> There as well. Obviously President Trump
has been quite keen on on keeping the
steel industry quite competitive. We've
seen that with the likes of that UK
trade deal as well. So maybe they're
holding their their you know holding
firm here when it comes to steel. But
then again, you know, we'll see what
impact that has on the market because
you know, the fact if if NHK is right
about how auto tariffs have come down
that has been seen as a very very big
positive when it comes to uh you know
some of these automakers overall.
>> Yeah, so far the direction of travel
seems to be favorable for markets. This
has been the pattern and I would imagine
this will be the pattern that will
follow across these markets this time of
the day when we do have more details on
trade coming through. We have a headline
comes through and then we understand
ever so slowly bit by bit what the
details are of anything that was
announced in Japan's case that's the one
that's the one today rebar futures in
China 210 of 1% there's been rising for
a separate story the meadam project and
of course everything else in between
right very quickly about 11 minutes into
the session cash market in Manila 410 of
1% Philippine composite 20% to 19%
tariffs overnight
was what they agreed on with Bongo
Marcus and President Trump. President
Bongo Marcus and President Trump of
course in the White House as well right
before we all found out about the
separate one which is of course Japan.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. Uh, Chinese markets
are on the front foot. Half of 1% in the
Hong Kong market. CSI 300 310 at 1%. So
we're now within 4% of a level that we
hit right before the US elections back
in November of last year. Then we
cascaded lower. So above that, we're
back to September 2024 levels. A quick
glance at turnover. We've been tracking
this as an indicator of market activity
and market sentiment. We're now nearing
300 billion yuan in just the first 14
minutes of the session. So, this market
is really waking up in many ways here.
>> Yeah, it is. And you know, it continues
to be a good news story when it comes to
trade here as well. Also, a flip side,
what we're seeing domestically in China,
right? The latest story really has been
China now warning it may shut down coal
mines guilty of exceeding production
limits. And it's the latest sign that
regulators are getting serious about
reigning in over capacity across
industries. Let's bring in Steven
Stapinsky who leads our Asia energy
coverage. There is a bit of urgency in
what we're hearing so far. How far are
they going to go and really trying to
curb some of the overprouction that
we're seeing in the coal industry.
>> You know, there is a a very large coal
glut in in China at the moment. Coal
production uh continuously has hit a
record high year after year. Now, that's
not necessarily down to the mines
themselves. China has been pushing uh
for energy security since the Russia's
invasion of Ukraine in 2022 sent energy
prices surging around the world. Um it
caused shortages in certain markets and
China wanted to avoid that. So they
decided to really jump down and and
double down on production of domestic
coal resources. Now there are levels
that these mines aren't supposed to be
producing at. And as this has helped
bring down prices of coal uh for for
Chinese miners, it's actually brought it
down a little too much. Uh Chinese
domestic coal prices earlier this year
hit the lowest level in about four
years. It tested the lowest level since
2009. And when you're at such a low
level, it it is not beneficial for these
mine producer, these coal producers.
They they need to make better profits.
And I think that's one of the things
that China is looking at. You know, coal
is a major industry uh for the economy
and shoring up prices, making sure that
this over supply uh sort of goes away
will assist in pushing prices to a more
reasonable level and thus also
potentially creating better profits.
Now, we're not sure exactly which mines
will be shut. It we're in the early days
here. Um I think it could also be a
situation where the government puts out
this this statement um which was
reported uh in local media and then
maybe the minds just cooperate from
there. Um just the the fear of any
action from Beijing will push them to
make sure that their production is
curbed. But at the moment, you know,
we're we're at likely going to see
record levels of coal production this
year. That likely won't change. Well,
let's see what happens next year,
especially as China is supposed to start
reducing consumption of the fuel and
peak emissions by the end of this
decade.
>> Stephen, I'm sorry to put you on the
spot here. You know, we we got a
headline. I wonder if you could comment
on this. Um you and this is on Japan and
tariffs on steel. The US and Japan
agreed to keep 50% tariff on steel and
aluminum. That's according to the NHK.
That headline doesn't mean anything
without any context. I wonder do you
have any context here?
Yeah, the context this has to be about
Nepon Steel buying US steel. So earlier
this year as part of the landmark deal
for Nepon Steel to buy US steel, Trump
didn't want a a company to come in and
close their factories. They wanted the
US Steel the name this this very
historic company to continue producing
actually expand production and and they
wanted Nepo Steel to invest in the
company. This was actually part of
essentially part of what what Tokyo
thought as the trade deal which we saw
you know they they accomplished earlier
uh today according to Trump that they
were able to come to some sort of
agreement. Now the reason why Trump has
tariffs on steels they want to protect
that steel industry. They don't want
nepole and steel closing factories and
they they want to make sure that a lot
of the steel is still produced in the
United States. So I think that's why
Japan according to the NHK would agree
to such tariff. At the same time, Japan
isn't in isn't really interested in
selling more steel to the US. I think
they really are, especially through
Nepon steel. They're focused focusing on
developing that market domestically by
by investing in the production there.
The US has potentially enormous steel
demand going into the future. uh with
with the transition to to green energy
there will require more steel as well as
you know if through the AI boom building
data centers and also more
infrastructure for that will require
materials as well. Um so there is a lot
of potential demand and Trump wants to
make sure that that demand is met with
US businesses and US resources something
that is seems that the Japanese trade
negotiators are are fine with.
Steven Stapinsky there. Thank you so
much, sir, for that context. Sorry to
put you on the spot there. Fantastic uh
context there from Steven Sapchinsky
there over in Singapore. We covered co
and yeah, we ended up covering uh
covering steel. Okay, now speaking of
Japan and the US, we now have
confirmation coming through out of
Ishiba
uh on the
specific tariffs on cars that they did
strike the deal with the US to cut car
tariffs now to 15% which was earlier
reported markets had been rallying
already but yet that is now confirmation
for you of about 15%. Now speaking of
tariffs on the US, let's pivot now and
have a look at Europe and what it means
for China. I know that's fairly
complicated. Uh so you have US tax
forcing Europe to recalibrate how Europe
then invests and those links with with
mainland China. Now where Chinese
companies once focused on buying
infrastructure, things like ports, power
grids, they're now actually building
their own factories with the help of
local state subsidies. Now, senior
reporter James Mer is with us from
Beijing uh to talk us through today's
big take. James, yeah, what are the key
lines here, James?
>> I think the first thing and and to take
this back to Japan, uh Ursula Vander,
Antonio Costas are in Japan today
meeting with Prime Minister Isha. Then
they're coming to China tomorrow to meet
with President Xiinping and President
Lee Chang. And so I think the first
thing you'll be seeing today is the
Europeans and the Japanese discussing
how to deal with America. And then
they'll be discussing how to deal with
China. And then the European leaders
will come here tomorrow to meet with
President Xi and Premier Lee and to
really discuss, you know, the huge
economic and trade issues that the
European Union has with China right now.
You know, as as our story today shows,
there is an increasing amount of
investment from China, from Chinese
companies like CL or BYD that is going
into European going into European
markets in Portugal and Hungary and
Slovakia. But there is also a massive
increase in Chinese exports going into
Europe. The trade deficit that China,
the trade surplus that China has with
Europe is rising. Uh and the Europeans
are really not happy about that. They're
not happy that European companies are
selling less in China. They're not happy
that European companies can't get access
to government procure procurement in
China. They're not happy that they feel
themselves being shut out of markets.
That the Chinese are blocking exports of
rare earth magnets even just temporarily
to Europe. And they're also they see
that more and more Chinese exports are
coming into the market and Chinese
companies like BA are coming into the
market building factories and then are
going to out compete uh European car
companies. So there's a lot of uh
tension you know tension from the
economic side uh that's going to be
discussed tomorrow when when those
European leaders are here. Also
obviously they're going to discuss the
war in Ukraine. Europe obviously very
unhappy that China has not condemned
that invasion of Ukraine by Russia and
continues to support Russia through
trade.
And so what would be considered success
then in this meeting and what do you
think are going to be the key kind of
choking points and the issues on the
table?
>> I think this the you expectation for
success should be very very low. The
Europeans basically have said there is
not going to be any statement. We may
reach some kind of you know have some
kind of agreement on climate change but
even that is looking dicey. They're
basically the European leaders uh are
coming here to lay out again to the
Chinese leadership all the ways in which
they're unhappy to put on the table
again all the problems they have with
what China is doing across the the broad
spectrum of the relationship. You know
the the most recent one is the rare
earth uh export controls that were put
in place in April. Um but even prior to
that the European European leaders and
European governments were very very
unhappy with
economic relations with China, trade
relations with China and they weren't
seeing any improvement from that on the
Chinese side and honestly the Chinese uh
don't seem to really uh want to make any
changes on those things. you know the
basically you know two sort two two or
three years ago uh the former European
foreign policy head uh Yseph Burell
described the previous iteration of this
of this of this summit as a dialogue of
the deaf and from everything we're
hearing in the preparations for tomorrow
it sounds like it's going to be the same
the Europeans are going to come and
they're going to you know say the same
complaints they've had in the past and
the Chinese are going to come out with
the same statements they've had in the
past and it doesn't seem like at this
moment there is going to be any movement
on either side.
>> Well, James, that last comment just now
might go into answering this next
question. How tense really are ties
between the two sides here?
>> I mean, I think I think it's incredibly
tense. You there, as I as I said at the
beginning, there are just so many areas
in which they are fundamentally opposed
to each other. There are some areas like
climate change where you know the
Europeans and the Chinese both uh are
much more positive at least
comparatively to the Americans uh where
they're actually trying to work together
but you know I think the the reaction
and the and the reception that Von
Ursula Vanderline and Antonio Kuster are
going to get in Japan today is going to
really uh be very very warm. uh the you
know they're talking about defense
industrial comp cooperation they're
talking about you know doing some on
climate change they're talking about
economic security they're talking about
the joint problems they have with China
and then they're going to come to China
tomorrow and the re and the the the
reaction or the welcome they get here is
going to be very very cold and I think
that kind of sums up how bad relations
right now are between the European Union
many European countries in and of
themselves and the Chinese government
>> James great stuff James Baker there our
senior reporter on our big take here
this morning. Of course, you can read
the full big tape there, uh, on the
terminal, taking a look at some, you
know, breaking lines that we're getting
from the prime minister in Japan. So,
talking to the Japanese people, it seems
on on trying to sell this deal, right?
So, they will increase the US rice
imports within the existing bracket and
the deal will not sacrifice Japanese
agriculture at all. So, and there's
something on chips too, Dave, that
you've been tracking as well.
>> Yes. In fact, let let me just go back to
that as well. Well, yeah. So, Ishiba
said Japan will not be disadvantaged
from any tariffs on chips. So, it does
seem of course they're they're not
walking back just to be clear. They're
clarifying that many of the things they
agreed on in the last few hours or so
will be advantageous to Japan. Markets
are reacting that way. Plenty more
ahead. This is the China show.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China show. A look
at the CSI 300. Half hour into the
session. It's a sunny day out in
Shanghai and yeah, we are seeing this
equity rally continue. Not just when it
comes to onshore markets, we're talking
about overall, right? You take a look at
how Japan's doing, right? It's on fire.
The NIK is up more than 2 and a half%
here this morning. On the back of this
trade deal with the US, the prime
minister, Ishaba, speaking to reporters
once again and just clarifying what
actually was agreed upon in this deal.
>> It's and it's getting complicated
because he's not answering questions on
whether he will stay as prime minister.
And we're getting a a separate report
earlier on that he might decide on his
future uh in August. The reason that's
important is because there were
questions around them being able to
deliver a treat which he's now defending
as a good thing which when you look at
markets are treating it as a good thing.
Uh and then he's putting some context
into what they've said you know half a
trillion investment into the US number
one they won't be disadvantage on chips
number two price and cars and they're
bringing that down the tariff on steel
for example on the on on the nip on
steel deal. So a lot of these things are
complicated but yeah he's bringing them
into very domestically focused uh
political context but markets are I
guess on our screens right now. In fact
I believe these are at session highs
there on the naked 80% heavier on
volumes for this time of the day.
>> I would think the biggest stand out in
this deal is what Ishaba just confirmed
right the auto tariffs
>> that has been lowered from 25% initially
discussed
>> to 15. 25% would have been a pain for a
lot of these automakers that do export
significantly to the US. 15% I wonder
how reasonable that is for the likes of
of the the Subarus of the world, but we
certainly have seen the auto sector
really liking this news that this trade
deal has been put in place. Uh yeah, the
steel thing is interesting, right? Steve
Steven Chacheski mentioned this to us
that this is maybe part of the whole
nippon steel deal that maybe, you know,
for him to actually approve this merger,
>> you have to keep those steel tariffs at
50%.
>> Yeah. And that's I guess now the
qualifier of why that deal does now make
sense to being able to ensure that the
US interests are are protected as far as
that that specific deal is concerned.
Again, all of these things maybe don't
make sense without context, but yes,
we're trying to put everything together
for you. It's a bit confusing, but yes.
U so so there's that. Um we're also
looking at you know what one of the big
stories we're going to talk about today
was 40-year bond auction, but we'll set
that aside for now. It's really not. Uh
but just to mention, we should get more
information at 40-year bond auction in
about 90 minutes or so. Uh what does
this mean for trade talks which the
other news overnight was looking at
Stockholm next week of course for China
and the US there?
>> Yeah, they're they're they're choosing
very interesting European countries to
meet, right? Geneva, London, and now
Stockholm.
>> Uh you got to Yeah, they're beautiful
places. Maybe that's when you can get
some good vibes. Uh because Besson did
mention right it is actually good vibes
leading up to it because his intention
it seems is that they're going to work
on some extension right that maybe
August 12th for China is not set in
stone just yet too
>> not yet markets liking this because we
are getting pre progress and trade um
arguably looking at the tariff levels
that have been announced not the worst
case scenario but certainly higher than
the base case this time last year
without the tariff conversation. In
fact, what we know so far, here's what's
been announced and agreed on so far. So,
we're waiting for a few big things. Of
course, China's not in there. We'll talk
about China maybe later on. India, not
just yet. That that's a little bit more
complicated. I think when you talk about
access to the car market, we talk about
Japan being complicated. India is a bit
more complicated arguably as far as
that's concerned. But yeah, here are
some of the this is now the new normal
as it pertains to trade. Um are these
restrictive as far as trade
relationships are concerned? Um who
knows, right? U just very very quickly
here uh let's have a look at markets and
where we are. So we're doing quite well
across the benchmark. Mi Asia Pacific is
up. That's because of what's taking
place in Japan. Mark Cranfield is with
us right now to give us more context on
uh whether or not Mark this this uh this
rally has legs or is this simply
repositioning
as we've ever so slowly receded back
from the from the brink.
Well, if you look at Japan in
particular, obviously the the driver
today is the transportation sub index
and there could be plenty of upside
there because a 15% tariff on on
Japanese autos is a huge relief to
investors. They thought it's going to be
a lot worse than that. And if you think
of a company like Toyota, Toyota Motor
is the biggest component in the topics
index. Even after today's very big rally
and it's it's up more than 10% today, it
is still underwater for the year to
date. So if global investors are looking
for a catch-up trade, look no further
than Japanese car makers because there
is plenty of room for those kind of
companies to catch up with the big
stocks around the world. And Japan of
course the the topics index in
particular has lacked behind the
performance of Korea, Hong Kong, China,
most of the major indices in Asia. So
there's lots of room as you look ahead
for the rest of the second half of the
year. There's lots of room here for
people that have been staying out of
Japan waiting for this trade deal. This
is looking like a great chance for them
to get in maybe to reduce exposure to
some of the markets which have done
really well in the first half of the
year and start to move allocations back
towards Japan. This could well be a
turning point for for Japanese stocks
into the second half and it there's
plenty of room for them to go.
what's happening in the JGB market,
right? We're seeing these a little bit
of a meltup in in yields now, Mark.
What's the thinking behind that among
the bond traders now ahead of this
40-year bond auction? Of course,
>> it's all about the Bank of Japan. So,
what has changed significantly, the Bank
of Japan has repeatedly been saying that
unless there was a trade deal, they
weren't going to consider raising
interest rates again. Now, we have a
trade deal and we have a Bank of Japan
meeting next week. Suddenly, the whole
yield curve is jumping. And most
significantly, we've seen today the
2-year yield has jumped into an area
where it is fully pricing a 25 basis
point hike for next week. That changes
the dynamics completely. And you can see
also the turnaround in the yen is partly
a fact of these short-term yields
jumping. The long end of the curve is a
whole another story, and that's the
40-year auction. That's dicey enough.
But what has changed today is what
happened at the short end of the curve.
Now, the Bank of Japan probably isn't
going to raise interest rates next week.
It's probably already decided it needs
more time to look at the trade deal, but
there is one. And now it's going to
really raise the odds for September or
October. Suddenly, traders are much more
serious about the possibility of higher
interest rates in Japan sooner rather
than later. At the same time, as people
keep on talking about the chance the
Federal Reserve will lower interest
rates before too long. You put those two
together, it's negative for the dollar,
it's positive for the yen. This dollar
yen move could have quite a way to go
yet.
>> Yeah, uh we're certainly seeing the two
here as well moving as you say. Mark,
thank you so much for covering all
things Japan for us this morning. Mark
Cranfield, our boom mine strategist. He
also talked about that carry trade in
the yen that's still very much intact
right now, that trade. Uh beyond that,
we're taking a look at these Japan
autos, right? because it seems like the
big sort of highlight in in this US
Japan trade deal with the prime minister
Ishaba did confirm in just the last
couple of minutes that it it looks like
to be a 15% tariff on automobiles
imported from Japan that is confirming
earlier local reports as well that's why
you're seeing double digit gains for
likes of Toyota Subaru this morning for
more let's bring in our senior editor
Reed Stevenson for more you know Reed
before this they were bracing for a 25%
tariff
which would have been brutal. What does
15% mean for the auto sector now for
Japan?
>> Yeah, I mean this is a classic relief
rally. I mean everyone had sort of
worked under the assump assumption that
we were going to see a 25% tariff. The
stock uh you know prices of various car
makers had priced that in. Um I mean you
know depends on the car maker when you
talk about the actual impact. It seems
like Toyota has already been preparing
uh for uh some uh level of tariffs and
has uh there are even reports that it's
it's been lowering some of its prices in
advance of um something like this.
Whereas uh for example other car makers
Nissan and Honda which actually have
manufacturing capacity in the US um
they're they've already been shifting
production over there in anticipation of
this. And so, um, look, they're all
going to have to weather this storm and,
um, you know, what remains to be seen is
is whether it continues beyond, you
know, the Trump administration,
>> right? Uh, who does this benefit the
most? Markets are trying to I mean, it's
certainly good for the sector. Um, some
of the names that have been floated with
the most exposure to the US, names like
Subaru for example, Reed. Uh, do we have
to distinguish or does this, you know,
float all boats as they say?
Yeah, I mean you know benefit I mean
from what level right I mean essentially
uh who who least hurt I guess in this
instance I mean subatu certainly uh is
very reliant on the US for a lot of its
sales. So they're probably going to see
a large hit. You know in aggregate we
were looking at uh you know a hit of
about 19 billion for all of Japan's car
makers combined. I mean Toyota you know
just by sheer scale is going to make up
the largest chunk of that. Uh I mean as
we know uh you know Nissan has its own
sort of internal issues around
management and and just you know an
aging model lineup in addition to the
tariff situation. Honda is a little bit
behind on its EV strategy that may be
you know somewhat of a relief actually.
And so really it really depends on which
car maker you're looking at. But look,
Japan's car makers have been through
many storms in the past, including, you
know, the the the the huge rally in the
yen, you know, almost 30 years ago. And
so really, um, they're they're they're
just sort of adjusting here and and
shifting production to where it makes
sense. And, um, and then, of course,
we're just going to have to see how all
of this shake shakes out. But I mean,
for now, we're we're looking at a relief
rally as you saw with the uh the the the
share gains this morning.
>> Reed, there's a price tag, right? $550
billion of investment into the US. I'm
just wondering, does this what part of
that is going to be from the the auto
sector in particular? I mean, are are
automakers in Japan serious now about
possibly moving manufacturing to the US?
>> Well, look, they they've been doing that
for for decades now. I mean, there
there's this report of an LG deal up in
Alaska. That's certainly part of the 550
billion uh figure. Uh I'm sure there are
a lot of other components there. Um but
look, it's it's it's a big figure
that's, you know, meant to to grab
headlines and so to a certain extent it
looks like it's doing its trick.
>> Right. Reed, thank you so much. Reed
Stevenson, our senior uh editor there in
Tokyo. really important context. Um,
it's it's good relatively speaking.
There we go. Okay. Uh, we have some big
guests coming up on your screens
shortly. Scott Bessen, US Treasury
Secretary and Commerce Secretary How
Lutnik of course will be joining Liberty
Surveillance later tonight. If you're in
Asia, of course, watch at those times on
your screens here in the Asia Pacific.
That is, of course, Wednesday morning in
the United States.
>> Yeah, certainly there's going to be a
lot to talk to him about, not just about
this Japan trade deal, the the talks in
Stockholm with China next week as well.
And of course, Besson talking about he
sees no need right now to try to fire
Jay Powell. Certainly, there's a lot
going on as well. We're going to add
more coming up with Sean Stein from the
US China Business Council. The president
there joining us more on how terrorists,
industrial policy, and geopolitics are
reshaping the business landscape for
American companies operating in China.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Well, US Treasury Secretary Scott Basson
says he will meet his Chinese
counterparts in Stockholm next week for
talks aimed at extending a tariff truce.
But despite the pause in hostilities,
the US China Business Council has found
that a record share of US firms froze
their investments in China this year as
trade ties worsened. Joining us from
Hong Kong is the group's president, Sean
Stein. Sean, it's great to have you. I
know you're on your way uh to China to
meet with some of your members there and
the like. First and foremost though,
before we get to the the survey, you
know, there's talks that are going going
on in Sweden between US and China next
week. We're hearing that more of these
trade deals that the US is really kind
of coming up with with with Asia and and
before that August 1st deadline. It
seems like things are materializing
right now. What is sentiment on the
ground like and what are our
conversations with your members now
about what's to come?
>> Um yeah, I think the members and I think
business in general is very pleased to
see that we've got talks coming up next
week. Um you know, one of the real
problems that we've had is neither side
really understands the other side very
well and there hasn't really and there
still isn't really a working mechanism
for the two sides to have regular
ongoing communication. So these high
level talks are really important. So uh
businesses are optimistic that this
could lead to a continued sort of easing
uh in the tension between uh between the
two countries. If we look at the
previous meetings, you know, we were in
the middle of a trade war when they went
into Geneva and in Geneva they
negotiated sort of a truce on the ever
escalating tariffs and the tariffs then
came down. But then we had a new front
in the trade war and that front in the
trade war was export controls. And then
in London the export controls started to
come down. And so our hope is that now
that we've got sort of a true sort of
ceasefire on export controls and on
tariffs that we can now get into the
more important conversations about
market access and about the other types
of things that hold back American
companies from competing in China. So
business is very optimistic and very
pleased to hear about the meetings that
are coming next week.
Sean, David here. The the direction of
travel seems to be clear. There's the
issue though of a deadline that's coming
up and I wonder if your members are
assuming that we will get a trade deal
before the deadline. If we if we don't,
what are some of the uh what are some of
the plan B's that some of the members
are putting in place in case we don't
get clarity uh before that deadline?
>> Yeah, I think it goes without saying
there's going to be a deal. There has to
be a deal and and for a couple of
reasons. The first is, you know, the
president himself tweeted on June 9th.
He said, "We have come to an agreement,
you know, between the two countries, and
now we're waiting for it to be signed
off by me, President Trump, and by
President Xi." A couple of weeks later,
we had the president come out and
announce we have a deal. We have a
framework deal. And so to now go back
and say, "Oh, you know, we had a deal,
but uh we don't really have a deal." Uh
seems like a very unlikely outcome. So,
by far the most likely outcome that
everyone is seeing is a continuation of
of uh of where we are now after August
12th. But there's another part that I
think doesn't get as much coverage as uh
particularly on the US side, and that's
China's reaction and what China's
expectations are. Um, I've spoken to a
number of Chinese officials who say
that, you know, it's it's sort of a bit
of a fallacy to assume that the only
person who decides whether the deal gets
extended or not, uh, is on one side of
the Pacific, but that both sides of the
Pacific are going to be involved in this
decision. And so, uh, they will say, uh,
you know, what's the alternative? If we
don't have a deal, then we don't have a
deal. And then what? We go back to
Geneva, we go back to pre Geneva, uh,
which is something that both sides would
find unthinkable. So I think uh
everyone's prediction is that
and go and life will continue as much as
it has. But you ask how companies are
sort of um are sort of hedging. Large
companies aren't large companies are by
and large assuming that it's going to
continue on August 12th and so they're
dealing with other more challenging
issues like what are we doing about the
tariffs? The real problem is formemes.
The SMMES are where the real problem is
because they don't have the financing
and the funding that might be available
to a larger company. So what we've seen
is we saw thatmemes
uh and there are huge numbers of them.
Remember we've got uh you know uh
thousands and thousands ofmemes that are
dependent on imports from China. What
they had to do was we talked about a
90-day deal uh which was that came out
of Geneva. They saw that as a 60-day
deal. they realized they had 60 days to
get goods on the water to make sure that
they beat uh some sort of change in
tariffs. So that's where we're seeing
the reaction is inmemes. The larger
companies are mostly continuing with the
expectation that that things will
continue uh as they have been.
>> Right. And I guess a good example that
we've talked about in recent weeks here
in the show is Nvidia and of course H20
chip. Speaking of market access,
you you seem very confident that we will
be getting a deal based on I think the
rhetoric coming from the White House. In
terms of specific deals on market
access, Sean, what do you think we will
see? What is a realistic expectation to
have?
>> So, right now the biggest impediment
actually to market access deals under
the current framework uh is the fentinel
tariffs. Right now we've got 30% tariffs
uh on on China plus what we got during
Trump 1.0. Of that 30% 20% are the
fentinel related tariffs. Uh but you can
we can't just look at that in isolation
is what does that mean for imports into
the US market. When the US imposed those
tariffs on China, China imposed uh
retaliatory tariffs. And those tariffs
are affecting some very important
sectors in the United States. It's
affecting large displacement
automobiles, big exports for certain US
companies. It's affecting uh it's
affecting energy exports and it's
affecting agricultural exports. And so
what that means is it means that the key
to getting uh further progress and
actually getting not one giant deal to
move forward, but getting a lot of the
small deals that the president seems to
like is uh is the key is getting
fentinel tariffs down. So that's where
we're we're the most optimistic. You
would have noted that about three weeks
ago, China took action to restrict the
sale of two very critical precursors for
uh for fentinel and so we understand on
the US side the United States is
monitoring that now to see what is the
actual effect on fentinel supply in the
US how's that affecting the availability
of precursors to various cartels and
what's happening say to the street price
of fentinil and the other measures that
you have so really where business is
seeing the biggest opportunity for a
breakthrough is progress on fentinil
that then lowers tariffs on the US side
which then opens the door for China to
lower tariffs that lets us sell
agriculture lets us sell airplanes that
lets us sell automobiles that lets us
sell energy. So I think that's the area
that's most ripe for progress in the
area that's most right for the deal and
again those are the kind of deals
that'll be very important for the
president uh to be able to announce um
agriculture purchases for the Midwest
etc.
>> Uh Sean, hold on that thought for a
second. Uh we just have some breaking
news that's crossing here. This is local
news Mayi out of Japan and they are now
reporting that the prime minister Ishaba
will announce his resignation by the end
of August. So that is what they're
reporting here right now. We did hear
from Ishaba just a few moments ago
talking about this trade deal that's
been uh set with the US and avoiding
those questions of whether he was going
to stay in power or not. There's been
multiple reports saying that you know
his future is really determined uh by
this trade deal and maybe by August he
would have more of an indication of
where he is going to be. So my nichi now
let's keep in mind it's still local
reporting said that the prime minister
Ishaba is going to be resigning by the
end of next month.
>> Okay I'm looking at market reaction
markets are looking at this development
positively. NIK225.
You look at the line chart, there's an
incremental leg higher on the NIK.
There's also weakness coming through
separately in the Japanese currency
which you see on your screen. So, we've
taken out earlier on the 147 handle.
We're a little bit below that at about
that level as we speak. The NK225
heading into its lunch break 8 minutes
from now is actually gaining even
further right now. We're up about a
couple of more points um from when the
news before the news broke. So we're now
about 3% higher on the nickel here.
>> Yeah. I mean, does it eliminate the
political uncertainty? I guess when it
comes to Japan, maybe that's what's
being taken out of this market here
right now. Um but certainly, you know, I
I guess it was sort of his goal maybe
that to try to get this US trade deal in
place first. That bottom a bit of time
here. We'll see if this is correct
though. Of course, uh still a lot of
speculation just reporting uh internally
or locally here right now. But yes, as
Japanese markets are actually rallying
on this news, Sean, I'll bring it back
to you and US and China whether we could
bring a segue back into this. Um, I
thought it was very interesting in your
in your survey with members, not just
talking about the tariff threats, but
also what's been going on domestically
in China, this whole anti-involution
sort of theme where regulators are now
really trying to crack down over
capacity, uh, subsidies that are be
putting in in some parts of of the of
the economy. How is that impacting US
companies that are operating in the
mainland now?
>> Um, yeah, that's a really important
point because so much of the oxygen has
been taken up by discussions of tariffs
and export controls that we've gotten in
many cases away from the really core
issues that helped uh prevent American
companies and and other global companies
from being as competitive as they could
be in China. And so the first thing that
we're seeing is that um we have fully
66% of companies who are telling us that
their Chinese competitors are receiving
benefits of different types from the
Chinese government. Maybe it's
discounted loans, maybe it's free land,
maybe it's construction, maybe it's
other things. But what's the impact of
that 66% is we're now seeing that uh
almost everyone across the board is
seeing uh deflation in their sector. uh
we're seeing uh and companies that
haven't yet seen deflation in their
sector believe that they're going to
start seeing deflation in their sector
uh in the very near future. Uh but the
upshot of all of this isn't just what it
means for the China market. Isn't just
what it means for declining sort of
profitability and the ability to sell in
the China market. What I think is even
more worrying is that um we have over
40% of our member companies say that the
problem of Chinese industrial policy
isn't just limited to China, but that
over the next 5 years they believe that
it's going to affect their
competitiveness in global markets. And
so what we have then is we have
international effects and spillover from
Chinese uh overcapacity and Chinese
subsidies and other project programs
that China has to support their own
businesses. So in China we get
deflation, we get lower competitiveness
and we get new Chinese companies that
are able to to grow partly due to their
own innovation, partly to their own
work, uh but partly also due to
subsidies. But increasing this is going
to become a problem globally as
companies from around the world are
fighting for market share in third
country markets.
>> Sean, thank you so much for joining us.
Sean Stein there, president at US China
Business Council and have a great trip
to China as well. uh as we were just
talking about here uh we got to switch
it back to Japan because the markets are
moving now on this report
>> from Mayi that we might not have a prime
minister in Japan in a few weeks time
>> and August is when the timing of when
this report is
>> citing that the plans to resign in terms
of market reaction it's worth noting
that we are going into the Japanese
launch break so inopportune time really
but we'll get futures up and running as
far as the currency markets goes the yen
is down against the dollar. It's down
against most of its peers as well.
That's number one. Nicke is seeing a
little bit of a leg higher following the
news that's come out. But also,
we're looking at that Nicay V index is
actually seeing a substantial leg higher
also on the back of this news. We'll be
live out of Tokyo coming through as we
go into this lunch break. Yeah, go
ahead. As the trade negotiator is
speaking this hour talking about this US
and Japan trade deal, they're saying
mutually beneficial does not include
steel and aluminum though. Plenty more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
>> All right, 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. We joke
about this is now becoming the Japan
show. It certainly is just given the
news that we've been getting here in the
last few minutes. Nikki225 is up more
than 3%. On this news, reports from
Manichi that the prime minister Ishiba
will announce his resignation by the end
of this month. This is on the back of
course the US and Japan coming on in
agreement to that trade deal. Dave,
>> yeah, there we go. Yen crosses too. So
the yen is weaker. We've now taken out
147 session highs on dollar yen
thereabouts. Uh there's a lot of trade
going on. In fact, the bid ask for this
is getting extremely extremely tight.
Euroyen now trading at 17263. The yen is
also weaker against most of its other
major peers. Uh let's bring in Sherry on
our co-anchor of course she's in Tokyo
for us covering initially what was a
trade conversation Sherry that's now
morphed into something political. What
would what could be the implications of
this Sherry?
It's an interesting development, right?
Because coming into the headlines from
the trade negotiations with the United
States, there was some speculation that
what does that mean for Prime Minister
Ishiba? Because he just suffered that
historic defeat in the upper house
election when the LDP now is set to
govern without both chambers of the
legislative branch. And we haven't seen
that happen, them having not a majority
since the party founding. So uh the
continuation of trade negotiations with
the US was seen as one reason why Prime
Minister Isha was vowing to stay on as
leader. But now local media reporting
that he will actually resign by the end
of the month. So what that means for the
next leadership here in Japan is a key
question because we have seen of course
before Prime Minister Shinszo AB this
revolving door of prime ministers have
ruled only by about a year or so and
could we see a repeat of that and who
could be the biggest candidates right
now to replace him will be a key
question when the ruling LDP now faces
uh many different challenges including
having lost the upper house majority
concessions to smaller opposition
parties have asked everything from
really lowering uh the sales tax at this
point, more fiscal spending, what that
means for the markets, especially JGBs.
Remember, we do have that 40-year
auction coming out in just less than an
hour. So, will we see the increasing
pressure on the long end of a sovereign
debt here in Japan will be a question
for markets going forward.
Yeah, it's why we've seen maybe this
meltup in yields once again as well. Um,
we're we're we're getting into this
getting more in confirmations, I guess,
from the the Japan side of what really
came through in this trade deal.
Akazawa, the trade negotiators, is is
still speaking and talking a little bit
more about the breakdown that yes, steel
aluminum tariffs seem to be still in
place, confirming at least auto tariffs
are coming down to 15%. and they're
saying it's mutually beneficial this
trade deal. How are they going to sell
this to Japan right now? Sherry,
>> overall when it comes to the net impact
of lower tariffs, this is expected to be
better than the 25% that was threatened
on Japan. So policy makers will be able
to sell this to the Japanese public as
actually being beneficial for the
economy better at least than the 25%
tariffs originally planned. better than
the 24% tariffs that were initially
threatened as well. 15% tariffs on
Japanese cars though that's still higher
than the existing 2.5% rate but
everything to do with trade negotiations
and tariffs is relative right so the
fact that the tariffs on Japanese cars
came down what happens to the 25%
tariffs on South Korean cars will be a
key question if you can have that
relative advantage that's another way to
be able to sell this seal to the
Japanese public of course very important
because this auto sector is very
important for the Japanese economy. It
generates about 10% of Japan's GDP. It
employs more than five million people.
That's about 8% of the Japanese
workforce. We have seen, of course, the
immediate reaction from car makers from
the likes of Toyota, from the likes of
Subaru. Toyota that sells about 20% of
its global sales come from the US.
Subaru more than 70% as well. President
Trump has talked about opening the
country, opening Japan to US car
imports. We'll have to continue to watch
that because we've talked extensively
about how American cars may not
necessarily be appealing for the
Japanese public. So, even opening that
market, what that could potentially
mean, we'll continue to watch what the
developments are around Ivonne, as you
said, the aluminum and steel tariffs,
but of course, those sectoral tariffs
are in place for other countries as
well.
All right, Sher. Thank you, Sheran.
There, uh, we we rushed her back to the
studio just to get through all this
breaking news and we're rushing William
Cho as well, Hudson Institute's Japan
chair deputy director. William, uh, it's
great to have you on the program. Thanks
so much for for joining us here on so
last minute uh, request, but the the the
the news reports of Isha resigning by
the end of next month. What's your take
on all this? you know, obviously people
he's been dealing with a lot of push
back for people for him to to resign. It
seems like he was waiting at least to
get this trade deal through first. What
would this mean overall for Japan now?
>> Yeah, I I think um certainly I think
this is sort of a a major action that he
decides to sort of push through. Um I I
know that we're still waiting for more
details on the trade deal, but certainly
uh issues about market access on um on
rice and other agricultural products
that certainly will elicit uh reaction
uh from Japanese voters, especially
within the LDP, which is so dependent on
the agricultural vote. Uh and so I think
um what this means is that we're sort of
entering a period of speculation as to
who's going to be the next leader. Uh
there are a number of possible internal
candidates such as uh um uh such as
Hayashi or um uh the and also finance
minister Kato, but there's also the
possibility of maybe the LDP and KTO
working with other coalition partners
and selecting a leader out of there. Um
right now it's there's just a lot of
speculation,
>> right? William David here and just maybe
one follow there to to what we're still
speculating as you point out, right? So,
can we still assume though that it will
be the LDP that is at the forefront
here?
>> I my I I I I have to admit this is
really hard to say, right? Especially
given the uh what's been going on with
Japanese politics, but I think my best
guess is that it will still remain in
the LDP uh it it will still be LDP
leader who replaces uh Prime Minister
Ishiba. But I do think that there is a
window where there might be other
possibilities. But my my best, you know,
if I were a betting man, which I'm not,
um my best bet is that it will be a LDP
leader, uh as a way to sort of ensure
that there's some kind of continuity
with the obviously this important trade
deal as well as to really frankly just
to calm things down a little bit because
I think to be very frank, I think Japan
is entering a a sort of a election
fatigue between both leadership as well
as uh uh parliamentary elections and I
think some kind of stability would be
desirable.
William, markets are taking this trade
deal very positively right now. Right. I
it is one of the lowest sort of tariff
rates we've seen in some of the major
nations uh um that uh does trade with
the US. How big of a win do you think
this is going to be for Japan?
>> I think this is a a really significant
win for Japan. Um, if you take the
reality that the Trump administration
always always was going to insist upon a
10% baseline tariff as well as
frameworks for long-term uh market
access to ensure long-term um pathway
towards uh trade balances instead of
trade deficits. I think given those uh
existing circumstances, Japan did quite
well in terms of u you know lowering the
reciprocal trade uh tariff down to 15%.
as well as to uh lower the the
automotive tariff from 25% down to 15%.
I think these are both significant uh
developments for Japan. Uh obviously
we're still waiting on more details in
ter in terms of what exactly does market
assets constitute as well as the
sectoral tariffs on other things like
steel and aluminum and as well as
semiconductors. But I think for now uh I
think markets are reacting as uh as I
think most of us would as well.
Yeah, and we're trying to figure out
numbers, too. William, section 232, is
it 15% or is it 12 and a half%. What do
you know? Or what insights would you
have there?
>> Uh, well, I was actually arguing with
one of your editors about this over
email, but my understanding is that it's
actually 12.5%.
So, down from 25% down to 12.5%. But the
United States also has a 2.5% um
automotive tariff. So, 12.5 plus 2.5
equals 15. Uh that that is my best
understanding right now and I certainly
uh there's been plenty of Japanese media
that are reporting it as 12.5
uh not 15 plus 2.5
>> 12.5 okay how would we classify that for
for the auto sector for example I mean
are these tariff levels still manageable
for this industry for example you know
25% was just painful but 12 and a half%
still seems pretty high
>> I think the autom auto. Look, I mean, I
can't speak for an automotive industry,
but my best understanding from my own
conversations with industry folks is
that while they, you know, I'm sure they
don't want to pay 12.5, uh, I still
think that they regard it as a
significant step forward, uh, certainly
it makes it a lot easier for Japanese
automakers like Mazda as well as, uh,
Subaru who are very dependent on the US
market and dependent on exports. I think
the 12.5 figure is uh is helpful for
them uh or certainly a significant step
forward for them and I think they will
work to find ways uh to uh to sort of
address it. The other thing that I'll
point out is that the $550 billion of
Japanese investments in the United
States which would vault Japan from
number one in FDI in the United States
to clearly number one head and shoulders
of number one in FDI in the United
States. Uh my question is how much of
that will also involve um automotive
investments in the United States? And so
I think that also sort of changes the
equation in terms of uh how how the
Japanese automotive industry will look
at uh these developments.
And and William, does that number 550
billion, does that seem like a new
number to is that in other words, is
that is that fresh out of the oven or it
or would can you imagine a world where
that is some way a total of what's been
collated so far and possibly obviously
fresh investment? In other words, what
I'm trying to figure out is is that
something new?
>> Uh I believe well to be fair, I I I I
also don't know myself, right? Um but I
know that Japan is currently at $860
billion of investment in the United
States. Uh you have the 100 billion from
SoftBank in AI. You have the $26 billion
from uh Nepon Steel in US Steel. You
have uh you know so so I think these
investments along with the uh the again
we're still short on details. Uh the the
joint venture between the US and Japan
in Alaskan LG. I think these will play a
major chunk of the 550 billion. But I
think there will be other investments
down the line as well. Uh the Ishiba
government previously uh back in
February talked about raising Japanese
investments in the US to 1 trillion.
This will easily vault uh way past that
to about what is it like 1.4 billion uh
1.4 trillion. So I think these are
really all very significant developments
and certainly it's what the White House
wanted.
Does this change materially the trade
surplus that Japan has with the United
States? You know, the White House has
President Trump specifically has has has
called on has called out countries
because of that imbalance of trade. We
can obsess over the details. But at the
end of the day, does this change that?
Well, I I think it does change the um
trade surplus because it one by having
more Japanese investments in the United
States, it bolsters the American uh
trade balance sheet. The other point
that I'll raise is that uh Japanese
government as well as Japanese industry
have been sort of raising this recently
which is instead of uh having us pay
these tariffs, why not let us use these
uh what these tariffs that we would pay
into um in as investments in the United
States, right? Let's put this would be
tariff uh monies to use as investments
in the United States. Now I don't again
I am still short on details of the exact
parameters of the $550 billion
investment in the United States but my
suspect I would suspect that certainly
uh there was some calculation as to why
don't we shift it from tariffs into much
more productive and growing uh
approaches of investing in the United
States and I think that probably was
also helpful in the negotiations as
well.
William, thank you so much
>> uh for that uh and apologies that we
rushed you in. Thank you for agreeing to
that fairly last minute William show
there. Fantastic context. Deputy
director of the Hudson Hudson Institute
Japan chair over over in Washington. Uh
we are on the Japanese lunch break as
far as cash cash markets go. Futures are
still trading though and as you can see
we're higher following news that at
least reports rather to be more specific
in Japan that the prime minister is set
to announce his resignation
by the end of August. Plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All
right, time for our trending in China
segment. Look at what's making headlines
in national newspapers and sparking yeah
conversation on social media. The
People's Daily has published a
commentary looking ahead to the EU China
Summit saying it's a key moment for
relations. Let's bring in our China
correspondent Mllo to talk us through
what's at stake here. We were just
talking to James Mer about how tense
things are between the two nations.
What's likely going to happen? Yeah,
actually just moments ago we had that
headline. The Chinese Commerce Minister
Wangwent Tao just coming off a video
call with his EU counterpart and lodging
solemn representations over the latest
EU sanctions over two Chinese banks for
their role in helping Russia. And this
is the first time that Chinese banks are
being implicated in these EU sanctions.
They were accused of offering
cryptocurrency services to Russia,
helping Russia to circumvent some of
these sanctions. So it looks like you
know a lot of these sticking points the
two main big complaints from the EU has
been China's trade practices what
Vanderelion has called the weaponizing
of supply chain and the second thing has
been the tested support of Moscow right
and it looks like these things continue
to remain a sticking point and possibly
a stalemate here just look at the
atmosphere so far and look at Chinese
foreign minister's Wangi's uh trip to
Europe recently it's we have seen how
tai soured during the trip because more
levies were announced while he was in
Europe and this uh is a people's daily
article that was published uh saying
that this is a key moment for China EU
ties and saying that this is a chance
for a reset but the choice lies with the
EU whether they want to lean towards
China right now or if they want to put
some distance with China in order to
satisfy the US. So yes, those tariffs
with the US has provided an opening, but
the sticking points still remain and it
looks like the bar is now very very low
for any sort of outcome coming out of
this summit.
>> How impressed do you think investors
should be given how low that bar
currently is and how fraught with
tensions that the current links are?
>> Yeah, so a lot of companies are now
trying to um circumvent these tariffs by
for example putting more investments
into European plants, right? And we have
seen how Chinese investments into the EU
over the past six, seven years has been
coming down. But we have also observed
how China's investments have shifted as
well. They used to do a lot of
acquisitions into infrastructure. So
things like power grids and ports. They
also acquire a lot of companies whether
it's in the tech sector in the agri food
business sector. But then soon there was
all these concerns over national
security over China's strategic
intentions and some of these
acquisitions started getting blocked.
And then so we see you know Chinese
investments pulling back over the years
and now they're starting to invest in
their own plants in these EU countries
sometimes with local state subsidies.
They've also shifted away from some of
these big countries like Germany France
and they've moved towards some of the
more friendly countries like uh
Portugal, Spain, Hungary. Just think
about Pedro Sanchez you know visiting
China multiple times courting actively
for Chinese investments. um Victor
Orban, one of the most pro-china leaders
in the EU getting rewarded with all
these deals from CL from BYD investing
in plants there. Um and so I guess the
big question even uh in Manuel Mcron
also saying that he welcomes Chinese
investment but with a caveat there that
competition must be fair. So the
question now is with Germany's new
government in place, what is Germany's
new China policy going to look like? And
that would give us give us a sense of
you know the overall tone from the EU in
terms of their openness to Chinese
investments and tomorrow's EU China
summit will give us a sense of uh how
relations are going as well.
Okay, Minman, thank you so much. Minman
Low, our China correspondent there. You
can read uh the big context here and all
the full big take on your terminal today
if you're a subscriber. You can check it
out there on your terminal. If you are
not a subscriber of the terminal, but
you are a subscriber on the internet,
it's also on bloomberg.com. Right. In
other news that we are following this
morning, China has suspended its
antitrust investigations into the local
unit of DuPont. That's ahead of next
week's trade talks with the US in
Stockholm. Now, the inquiry was among a
flurry of counter measures Beijing
announced in early April to hit back
against President Trump's so-called
reciprocal tariffs on Chinese products.
Now, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
has offered support for Fed Chair Jay
Powell a day after calling for an
exhaustive review of the central bank's
noncore operations. Now, Bessent has
told Fox Business that he sees no reason
for Powell to step down. The chair has
been under fire from President Trump for
holding fast on interest rates while
facing Republican attacks over a costly
renovation of Fed headquarters.
>> All right, we're we're under checking
this NDRC briefing in Beijing. There's
so many things going on this morning.
This has been going on for for much of
the past hour here. Um there's been some
news on Hainan. So, we're hearing from
the vice minister of finance, Yao Ming,
speaking at this briefing and talking
about expanding the zero tariff goods to
6,600 items uh in Hainan. So, they're
raising the zero tariff firstear imports
as well to 74%
from 21%.
So, that is quite a substantial jump
there. And they are going to begin the
custom closure for Hainan on December
18th. So this whole talk of a free trade
port is really kind of been sending all
these stocks higher this morning too
Dave or in the last few days actually
just in anticipation.
>> Yeah and it looks like a sell in the
news in fact today some of those names
are actually on the way down. I'm just
trying to make more sense of all these
taking place. It's an expansion as Ivon
is pointing out
>> of zero tariff goods. So that's a good
thing on the surface. Um they're raising
the zero tariffs from to 74 from from
21%. So
we'll we'll try and figure this out.
Market reaction is that market reaction
today specifically. But as Ivon is
pointing out, you have to take a step
back to really get a more holistic view
of how markets have traded really on
this specific which is still ongoing. So
we'll get you more details on this of
course later on in the program. We have
a couple of minutes left and we'll see
of course we get more headlines of that.
Plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
[Music]
In case you missed it, we're talking
about
>> and why we're breathing heavy.
>> It's been a It's been a long day. The
news flow has been quite intense. You
take a look what's been going on in
Japan here. So, there's a bit of a
relief rally underway in the auto
sector, but overall it it seems like a
pretty broad base in the back of the
multiple local news reports. Now TBS in
the last few seconds saying that the
Japanese prime minister Ishaba is set to
decide on his resignation soon. Mayi put
a time frame on it by August end. I
think San also had August uh and
according to their sources as well. So
it seems like now that we have this US
Japan trade deal now his future is
getting more clear what's going to
happen.
>> Yeah. Here's here's the next thing to
worry about.
>> Yeah. for markets for currency markets
specifically because the the Japanese
equity market has actually reacted
positively to this news with a further
we were trading at about 3% higher and
then the news break we're now trading at
3.3 and then maybe in the next hour
we'll get something out of the this
40-year bond auction to talk about but
yeah it's been busy in Japan today
>> it has right and I think you know I
guess it's no surprise that maybe this
could be happening given the fact that
it was a historic setback for the LDP
party and I think it was the trade deal
that was the only thing that was leaving
him hanging for a little bit longer and
now that we've actually see a framework
or at least something that is actually
quite seen as quite positive for Japan
now uh is it time now to step down and
for new leadership what does that mean
for the LDP party given just the setback
that we saw right I mean when it comes
to some of these opposition parties
really catering and it maybe even
attracting a lot of the local and young
younger voters I think they have a lot
of soularching to go for the LGB party
moving forward This might actually be
good for if you think about it for the
LVP if they're able to put someone in
that might be able to take that forward
on the back of changes taking place
there. A look at Chinese markets going
into the lunch break about 30 minutes
away. That's it from us. We will see you
all tomorrow.
[Music]